Algorithm::KMeans is a perl5 module for the clustering of
numerical data in multidimensional spaces.  Since the module
is entirely in Perl (in the sense that it is not a Perl
wrapper around a C library that actually does the
clustering), the code in the module can easily be modified
to experiment with several aspects of automatic clustering.
For example, one can change the criterion used to measure
the "distance" between two data points, the stopping
condition for accepting final clusters, the criterion used
for measuring the quality of the clustering achieved, etc.

Please note that this clustering module is not meant for
very large datafiles.  Being an all-Perl implementation, the
goal here is not the speed of execution.  On the contrary,
the goal is to make it easy to experiment with the different
facets of K-Means clustering.  If you need to process a
large data file, you'd be better off with a module like
Algorithm::Cluster.  But note that when you use a wrapper
module in which it is a C library that is actually doing the
job of clustering for you, it is more difficult to
experiment with various aspects of clustering.

This module requires the following three modules:

   Math::Random
   Graphics::GnuplotIF
   Math::GSL

the first for generating the multivariate random numbers,
the second for the visualization of the clusters, and the
third for access to the Perl wrappers for the GNU Scientific
Library.  The last, Math::GSL, is needed for the 'smart'
option for "cluster_seeding" in the constructor.

For installation, do the usual

    perl Makefile.PL
    make
    make test
    make install

if you have root access.  If not, 

    perl Makefile.PL prefix=/some/other/directory/
    make
    make test
    make install

Contact:

Avinash Kak  

email: kak@purdue.edu

Please place the string "KMeans" in the subject line if you
wish to write to the author.  Any feedback regarding this
module would be highly appreciated.
